Post: git protocol deprecation on GitHub (#152)
readthedocs/blog: github-git-protocol-deprecation.rst

.. post:: February 15, 2022
   :tags: github, git, deprecation
   :author: Santos
   :location: CUE

Deprecation of the ``git://`` protocol on GitHub
================================================

Last year, GitHub announced_ the deprecation of the ``git`` protocol due to security reasons.
This change will be made permanent on March 15, 2022.

.. _announced: https://github.blog/2021-09-01-improving-git-protocol-security-github/

At Read the Docs we found around 900 projects using a URL of the form
``git://github.com/user/project`` to clone their projects.
To save time to our users, we have migrated those to use the ``https`` protocol instead,
this is ``https://github.com/user/project``.

But there are other places where users may be using a URL with the ``git`` protocol,
like in submodules or dependencies. You'll need to migrate those to use a supported
protocol in order for your builds to keep working after March 15, 2022.

> In most cases, this means replacing the ``git://`` part with ``https://``,

Reviewer: Just a little more clarity

```suggestion
In most cases, this means changing URLs that start with ``git://`` to start with ``https://`` instead.
```

> if you have doubts, please check the documentation of the tools you are using,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have doubts, please check the documentation of the tools you are using,
```

for example:

- `git <https://git-scm.com/docs/git-submodule/#Documentation/git-submodule.txt-set-url--ltpathgtltnewurlgt>`__

> - `pip <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/topics/vcs-support/#git>`__

Author: Put these to make it clear that this isn't our responsibility, hopefully users won't mail us asking how to migrate their projects...

> - `git <https://git-scm.com/docs/git-submodule/#Documentation/git-submodule.txt-set-url--ltpathgtltnewurlgt>`__
> - `pip <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/topics/vcs-support/#git>`__

Reviewer: Good idea on the links. Some more description on the links could help here too

```suggestion
- `Git submodule URLs <https://git-scm.com/docs/git-submodule/#Documentation/git-submodule.txt-set-url--ltpathgtltnewurlgt>`__
- `Pip VCS support <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/topics/vcs-support/#git>`__
```

**Note that this applies only to repositories hosted on GitHub**,

> repositories using another provider that supports the ``git`` protocol won't be affected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
repositories using providers that support the Git protocol won't be affected.
```

This change will be made permanent on March 15, 2022.

.. _announced: https://github.blog/2021-09-01-improving-git-protocol-security-github/

At Read the Docs we found around 900 projects using a Git protocol URL
(``git://github.com/user/project``) to clone their projects.
To save time for our users, we have migrated those to use the HTTPS cloning URL instead
(``https://github.com/user/project``).

But there are other places where projects may be using a Git protocol URL,
like in submodules or dependencies. You'll need to migrate those to use a supported
protocol in order for your builds to keep working after March 15, 2022.
In most cases, this means changing URLs that start with ``git://`` to start with ``https://`` instead.
If you have doubts, please check the documentation of the tools you are using,
for example:

- `Git submodule URLs <https://git-scm.com/docs/git-submodule/#Documentation/git-submodule.txt-set-url--ltpathgtltnewurlgt>`__
- `Pip VCS support <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/topics/vcs-support/#git>`__

**Note that this applies only to repositories hosted on GitHub**,
repositories using providers that support the Git protocol won't be affected.

> At Read the Docs we will try keep you informed about deprecations
> or breaking changes from external tools that may impact your builds so you can
> take action before it happens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read the Docs tries to keep users informed about deprecations
and breaking changes that may impact projects.
To receive future updates like this, <a href="https://landing.mailerlite.com/webforms/landing/p8b7z2">subscribe to our newsletter</a>.
```
